.\" libxbee - a C library to aid the use of Digi's XBee wireless modules
.\"           running in API mode.
.\" 
.\" Copyright (C) 2009 onwards  Attie Grande (attie@attie.co.uk)
.\" 
.\" libxbee is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" libxbee is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH XBEE_ATTACHEOFCALLBACK 3  02-Mar-2012 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
xbee_attachEOFCallback
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <xbee.h>
.sp
.BI "xbee_err xbee_attachEOFCallback(struct xbee *" xbee ", void (*" eofCallback ")(struct xbee *" xbee ", void *" rxInfo "));"
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.BR xbee_attachEOFCallback ()
allows you to be notified if an EOF occurs on the device. An EOF can occur if a USB Serial Adaptor is unplugged, or if the network server closes the connection.
It is useful to know that an EOF has occured so that you can take action (e.g: warn the user).
.SS Return Value
On success this function will return XBEE_ENONE, otherwise an error number from
.IR "enum xbee_errors" " (as specified in " <xbee.h> )
.SH EXAMPLE
To configure an EOF callback:
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
#include <xbee.h>

void eek_eof(struct xbee *xbee, void *rxInfo) {
	printf("device failed - EOF\\n");
	xbee_shutdown(xbee);
}

struct xbee *xbee;

/* initialize xbee, using xbee_setup() */

if (xbee_attachEOFCallback(xbee, eek_eof) != XBEE_ENONE) {
	/* alert of error */
}
.fi
.in
.SH AUTHOR
Attie Grande <attie@attie.co.uk> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libxbee (3),
.BR xbee_setup (3),
.BR xbee_shutdown (3)
