.\" libxbee - a C library to aid the use of Digi's XBee wireless modules
.\"           running in API mode.
.\" 
.\" Copyright (C) 2009 onwards  Attie Grande (attie@attie.co.uk)
.\" 
.\" libxbee is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" libxbee is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH XBEE_CONDATAGET 3  04-Mar-2012 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
xbee_conDataGet, xbee_conDataSet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <xbee.h>
.sp
.BI "xbee_err xbee_conDataSet(struct xbee_con *" con ", void *" newData ", void **" oldData ");"
.sp
.BI "xbee_err xbee_conDataGet(struct xbee_con *" con ", void **" curData ");"
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR xbee_conDataSet ()
allows you to associate any data you wish with a connection.
This data will then be avaliable from within callback functions (see
.BR xbee_conCallbackSet (3)
for more), or by calling 
.BR xbee_conDataGet (3).
.sp
.I con
indicates which connection you would like to use, and
.I newData
indicates the data you wish to associate.
.sp
The
.I oldData
parameter allows you to retrieve the data that was assigned before you assigned new data.
If it is
.B NULL
then the data will not be returned.
.sp
The
.BR xbee_conDataGet ()
function allows you to retrieve the current data, without assigning new data to the connection.
.SS Return Value
On success these functions will return XBEE_ENONE, otherwise an error number from
.IR "enum xbee_errors" " (as specified in " <xbee.h> )
.SH EXAMPLE
.in +4n
.nf
#include <xbee.h>

struct xbee *xbee;
struct xbee_con *con;
struct my_struct my_info;

/* initialize xbee, using xbee_setup() */

/* initialize con, using xbee_conNew() */

/* keep scope in mind! if this function returns, the pointer will be invalid */
if (xbee_conDataSet(con, &my_info, NULL) != XBEE_ENONE) return;
.fi
.in
.SH AUTHOR
Attie Grande <attie@attie.co.uk> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libxbee (3),
.BR xbee_setup (3),
.BR xbee_conNew (3)
