.\" libxbee - a C library to aid the use of Digi's XBee wireless modules
.\"           running in API mode.
.\" 
.\" Copyright (C) 2009 onwards  Attie Grande (attie@attie.co.uk)
.\" 
.\" libxbee is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" libxbee is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH XBEE_CONADDRESS 3  04-Mar-2012 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
xbee_conAddress
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <xbee.h>

struct xbee_conAddress {
	unsigned char addr16_enabled;
	unsigned char addr16[2];
	
	unsigned char addr64_enabled;
	unsigned char addr64[8];
	
	unsigned char endpoints_enabled;
	unsigned char endpoint_local;
	unsigned char endpoint_remote;

	unsigned char cluster_enabled;
	unsigned short cluster_id;

	unsigned char profile_enabled;
	unsigned short profile_id;
};
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B xbee_conAddress
struct contains details on the network address for a remote node. It is recommended that you initialize it to zero by calling
.BR memset ()
before you fill it in and call
.BR xbee_conNew (3).
.sp
The data is ordered with the MSB of the address, in the first byte of the array.
.sp 0
E.g: the 64-bit address 0x0013A200 0x40081826 would be initialized like so:
.in +4n
.nf
memset(&address, 0, sizeof(address));

address.addr64_enabled = 1;
address.addr64[0] = 0x00;
address.addr64[1] = 0x13;
address.addr64[2] = 0xA2;
address.addr64[3] = 0x00;
address.addr64[4] = 0x40;
address.addr64[5] = 0x08;
address.addr64[6] = 0x18;
address.addr64[7] = 0x26;
.fi
.in
.sp
Endpoints are a feature of XBee Series 2 ZNet and ZigBee modules that are not present with XBee Series 1 modules.
.SH AUTHOR
Attie Grande <attie@attie.co.uk> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libxbee (3),
.BR xbee_conNew (3),
.BR xbee_conSleepGet (3)
