.\" libxbee - a C library to aid the use of Digi's XBee wireless modules
.\"           running in API mode.
.\" 
.\" Copyright (C) 2009 onwards  Attie Grande (attie@attie.co.uk)
.\" 
.\" libxbee is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" libxbee is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH LIBXBEE_REVISION 3  04-Mar-2012 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
libxbee_revision, libxbee_commit, libxbee_committer, libxbee_buildtime
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <xbee.h>
.sp
.B extern const char libxbee_revision[];
.sp 0
.B extern const char libxbee_commit[];
.sp 0
.B extern const char libxbee_committer[];
.sp 0
.B extern const char libxbee_buildtime[];
.SH DESCRIPTION
These are static strings that are compiled into the library. These are intended to help with debugging (when you contact me).
.TP
.B libxbee_revision
contains a version string
.sp 0
e.g: "v3.0.4"
.TP
.B libxbee_commit
contains the Git commit ID that the library was built from.
.sp 0
e.g: "9e8da59e41a6e901d2568861ea6323119927c9cc"
.sp
This string is used to ensure compatibility between the network server and clients.
This check can be disabled by specifying
.B XBEE_NO_NET_STRICT_VERSIONS
at build time.
.TP
.B libxbee_committer
contains the name and email of the committer
.sp 0
e.g: "Attie Grande <attie@attie.co.uk>"
.TP
.B libxbee_buildtime
contains the buildtime, as output by `date`
.sp 0
e.g: "Sun Mar  4 17:43:26 GMT 2012"
.SH EXAMPLE
.in +4n
.nf

#include <xbee.h>

printf("Libxbee revision: %s\\n",   libxbee_revision);
printf("Libxbee commit: %s\\n",     libxbee_commit);
printf("Libxbee committer: %s\\n",  libxbee_committer);
printf("Libxbee build time: %s\\n", libxbee_buildtime);
.fi
.in
.SH AUTHOR
Attie Grande <attie@attie.co.uk> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libxbee (3)
