.\" libxbee - a C library to aid the use of Digi's XBee wireless modules
.\"           running in API mode.
.\" 
.\" Copyright (C) 2009 onwards  Attie Grande (attie@attie.co.uk)
.\" 
.\" libxbee is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" libxbee is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH XBEE_PKT 3  04-Mar-2012 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
xbee_pkt
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <xbee.h>

struct xbee_pkt {
	struct xbee *xbee;
	struct xbee_con *con;
	const char *conType;

	unsigned char status;
	unsigned char options;
	unsigned char rssi; /* print as "RSSI: -%d\n" - only valid for XBee 1 */
	unsigned char frameId;

	struct timespec timestamp;

	struct xbee_conAddress address;
	
	unsigned char atCommand[2];
	
	void *dataItems; /* do NOT access this item */
	
	int dataLen;
	unsigned char data[1];
};
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xbee_pkt
structure provides access to the information contained within a packet.
.TP
.I xbee
provides a handle to the related libxbee instance
.TP
.I con
provides a handle to the related libxbee connection
.TP
.I status
provides the returned status information. This is not populated for all connection types, but is populated for
.BR "Local AT" ", " "Remote AT"
and possibly others (refer to the XBee datasheet for more information).
.TP
.I options
like
.IR status ,
this field isn't populated for every connection type, but is populated for
.BR "Data" " and " "I/O" 
(refer to the XBee datasheet for more information).
.TP
.I rssi
this field contains the 'Received Signal Strength Indication' value.
.sp 0
If populated, this can be printed like so:
.in +2n
.nf
printf("RSSI: -%d dBm\\n", pkt->rssi);
.fi
.in
.TP
.I atCommand
this is only populated for AT connection types, and contains the 2 character AT command.
.TP
.I dataItems
you should not dereference this pointer, it is for internal use
.IR only .
To access data, use 
.BR xbee_pktDataGet (3)
and its variations.
.TP
.I dataLen
this indicates the length of the
.I data
field.
.TP
.I data
this contains the body of the packet. This can contain 
.B zero
bytes, and libxbee will nul terminate it, so that data may be treated as a string (using
.BR printf (3)
for example).
.SH AUTHOR
Attie Grande <attie@attie.co.uk> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libxbee (3),
.BR xbee_setup (3),
.BR xbee_conNew (3),
.BR xbee_conRx (3),
.BR xbee_pktFree (3)
